- [Instructor] Up next is the customized mapping
for applying a date and number format.
Now, by default, JSON binding API uses the ISO format
to format your data number fields,
so let's head back to the IDE,
and let's create a test class here.
Test, date, time, formats.
Let the convention be right, OK.
And let's come down and grab the main method,
and under that, I'm going to just create
the JsonbBuilder call
to serialize a date object.
New date, java route util, and provide it some long value.
And then take this entire thing
and print it out on the console.
S O U T, system dot-dot-dot, print LN,
yeah, so now if I run this,
it'll give you that ISO format, all right?
Now, it is possible that you can change the format
for the respective date fields that you have
in your Java Beans.
For example, in my code, I have the Order object,
and I have this couple of date fields that I have,
Order date, and delivery date.
And of course, I have chosen the java dot time package,
local date API, in order to provide the data type,
and JSON binding completely supports
this Java dot time APIs, of course.
So, now, what we'll do is, we'll change the format
of the date that we have
for either the Order date or the delivery date.
And in order to do that, we have this @JsonbDateFormat
annotation that you can present as the compile time itself
and provide a format as a value of the annotation
and then get that customized date format for your classes.
So, let's go ahead and on that local date field,
on line number 19, I'm going to say @JsonbDateFormat,
and inside that I can choose whatever format that I want,
so, let's say I'm going to say DD,
MM, YYYY, so I want a dot as a separator
between each of the date fields.
Okay, so, in order to test this out,
we already have a test class
where we have played with the Order object.
I'm going to pick up test data types and come down,
and let's pick up the code for serializing the Order object,
so this is going to be Order,
we need the Order object, we also need the @JsonB instance,
and we need the code for serialization,
so, I'm gonna take codes lines number 28 through 35,
copy them, close this, come back to our test class,
and instead of this, just paste them here,
with the appropriate inputs.
Okay, so, yeah, everything is pretty much ready,
we've also put the date format.
Now let's see that when we serialize
this entire Order object,
then let's understand whether the date format shows up
in the serialized object, so I'm going to quickly run this,
and let's go to our project,
and test whether it's come out correctly in the order TXT.
Yeah, so do you see that the Order date is now right there,
which is in the format of DD dot MM dot YYYY,
so that's how you can serialize the date format
according to whatever convention that you have decided
for your application.
So the same is going to hold true
for the other fields as well,
and if you put the @JsonbDateFormat on the field directly,
then it is going to make sure that it considers the same
for both, serialization and de-serialization.
But, if you put it only on the getter,
then it'll happen only for serialization.
If you put it on the setter, then it'll consider it
for de-serialization as well.
So, there are multiple date formats that you can apply
for all your date fields.
Let's look at the other way, too.
Alternately, we can use JsonbConfig() with date format API
in order to set the format.
So what this means is, if you go back
to the object mapper class,
let's open the object mapper class,
and let's say here, I'll come down on line 34.
Let me comment this.
Let's put a new comment saying,
property setting for date,
and then say config,
dot, with, date format, yeah, there we go.
And here you can actually say,
YYYY, MM, DD.
Another format this is, and the locale,
you can choose whatever locale you want.
If you want, you can also get in the default locale,
which is like that, okay?
And then the config object is ready with us,
so let's come back to the dest date time formats,
and make sure that we pick up the config object,
so on line number 27, whenever you're trying
to create the empty @JsonB instance,
I'm just going to pass the config object
by other object mapper, so I'm gonna say, object,
mapper, dot, get object mapper,
okay, and the additional thing that we have to do is,
let's go to the Order class and make sure
that this is commented,
because we don't want the compile time customization.
We are trying to do a run-time customization
with the config object,
so let's go ahead and run this.
Okay, so test date time format,
we have taken the config object,
and to that config object we have set the date format,
so now let's run this, and test.
So now let's go back to the Order TXT.
It is loaded again.
Of course, you have used the JsonbConfig object
which is a runtime customization,
so whatever customization you apply there,
will apply globally to all the fields,
which is why right now you see both the delivery date
and the order date set to the format
that you've specified on the config object.